---
title: "C++ Meetup con Bjarne Stroustrup"
excerpt: "Evento speciale a Firenze!"
read_time: false
related: false
show_date: true
toc: true
share: true
comments: false
author_profile: false
tags:
  - community
  - meetup
  - firenze
---

Bjarne Stroustrup, the creator of C++, is the special guest of this unique Italian C++ Community meetup in Florence, organized by the Italian C++ Community, the University of Pisa (DII), and the University of Florence (DINFO).

Join us for an exceptional morning with one of the brightest minds in modern computer science: a technical talk followed by an open Ask Me Anything (AMA) session.

🇮🇹 Bjarne Stroustrup in Italy!

💡 High-quality technical content

⁉️ Live Q&A and AMA with Bjarne Stroustrup

🤝 Friendly atmosphere and networking

🎓 Direct access for students and researchers

⚜️ A perfect excuse for a weekend in Florence

🆓 Free participation (registration required)

❤️ Organized with passion by the Italian C++ Community

🇮🇹 Bjarne Stroustrup in Italy!

### Schedule

- 09:30 - 10:00: Doors Open & Networking
- 10:00 - 10:15: Welcome Message
- 10:15 - 11:45: Tech Session: Concept-based Generic Programming
- 11:45 - 12:00: Quick break
- 12:00 - 01:00: AMA (*Ask Me Anything*)

**The tech session will be broadcasted on YouTube**

### Registrations

[➕ Get your free ticket](https://italiancpp-fi26.eventbrite.it/){: .btn .btn--primary .btn--large}

### Tech talk

**Concept-based Generic Programming**

This talk presents programming techniques to illustrate the facilities and principles of C++ generic programming using concepts. Concepts are C++’s way to express constraints on generic code. As an initial example, it provides a simple type system that eliminate narrowing conversions and provides range checking.

Concepts are used throughout to provide user-defined extensions to the type system. The aim is to show their utility and the fundamental ideas behind them, rather than to provide a detailed or complete explanation of C++’s language support for generic programming or the extensive support provided by the standard library.

The final sections briefly present design rationales and origins for key parts of the concept design, including uniform treatment of types, use patterns, the relationship to Object-Oriented Programming, value arguments, syntax, concept type-matching, definition checking and static reflection (a C++26 improvements in the support of general programming).

### The speaker

Bjarne Stroustrup is the computer scientist who designed and implemented C++.

After earning a PhD from the University of Cambridge, he led research at AT&T Bell Labs and served as a Technical Fellow at Morgan Stanley. Currently a Professor at Columbia University, he has received the ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award, the Draper Prize, and the IEEE Computer Pioneer Award. His seminal book, The C++ Programming Language, remains a foundational text defining modern systems programming.

### Video

- Video in diretta streaming:

{% include video id="iu2A3qVkLQY" provider="youtube" %}
